user/pages/10.heartbeat/2018-11-18/item.md, before:

---
title: "yunity heartbeat 2018-11-18"
date: "2018-11-18"
continue_link: true
taxonomy:
    category: blog
    tag: [heartbeat]
published: true
---

**The yunity heartbeat** - news from the world of sharing, fresh every two weeks.

## [Kanthaus](https://kanthaus.online)
Kanthaus is still occupied with room planning. On coming Wednesday we will hold the third bigger meeting on the topic to clarify the obvious questions:
- What is the big, long-term masterplan for the layout of Kanthaus we all can agree on?
- What are the obstacles we need to overcome to make it reality?
- What steps towards these goals can be taken right now?

On top of that our [Autumn Roadmap](https://kanthaus.online/governance/minutes/2018-09-04_roadmap) is coming to an end, which means that we are closing in on a planning phase for winter anyways – so what's a better time for dreaming? :)

## [Foodsaving Worldwide](https://foodsaving.world)
Lódź celebrated the 1 year anniversary of their Food-Share Point last week with [a big event](https://www.facebook.com/events/256984375161501/). They also gave an [interview in a radio show](https://www.radiolodz.pl/broadcast_posts/48304-pierwsze-urodziny-lodzkiej-jadlodzielni-jestem-eko) (all in Polish, but a summary in English will follow shortly!), in which they showed a much brighter attitude than [during our visit in September](https://foodsaving.today/en/blog/2018/10/18/fspl-lodz-wroclaw).

In Germany there is a lot of work done right now to strengthen the voice of foodsharing in media, politics and education: Next week there will be the [first session of the newfound "foodsharing academy"](https://wiki.foodsharing.de/images/6/6f/Seminarausschreibung_final.pdf) in Kassel, where foodsavers can learn about how to educate others about issues related to food waste. And until the end of the year the [demands for Germany's politicians](https://wiki.foodsharing.de/images/c/c6/Forderugen_lang_2017-12.pdf) will be refined, renewed and represented towards the public.

## [Karrot](https://karrot.world)

Last heartbeat missed a Karrot contribution, so this one highlights activity since end of October:

- We scheduled our [winter roadmap](https://community.foodsaving.world/t/collecting-feature-requests-for-karrot-winter-2018/134/8?u=tiltec)
- 120 commits touching 15,000 lines of code
- [4 new releases](https://github.com/yunity/karrot-frontend/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- significant improvements to the [Android app](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=world.karrot)
- the frontend code is now [organized in modules](https://docs.karrot.world/frontend-structure.html)

![](Karrot-loading.png?resize=240,470)<br>
_The new splash screen when loading Karrot; it makes Tilmann happy every time he improves the code_

There was also some Karrot-related activity in the [community forum](https://community.foodsaving.world/):

- Janina wrote a [call for beta testers](https://community.foodsaving.world/t/call-for-beta-testers/144)
- Lukas started a discussion about a [funding concept for Karrot](https://community.foodsaving.world/t/funding-concept-for-karrot/136)
- Bruno shared [his ideas how to send less emails](https://community.foodsaving.world/t/improving-notifications-e-mail-and-push/169)


_by Tilmann_

## Foodsavin today

## [foodsharing.de](https://foodsharing.de)-dev

## [Harzgerode / Haus X](http://freiefeldlage.de/)

## About the heartbeat.
The heartbeat is a fortnightly summary of what happens in yunity. It is meant to give an overview over our currents actions and topics.

### How to contribute?
Talk to us in [#heartbeat](https://yunity.slack.com/messages/heartbeat/) on [Slack](https://slackin.yunity.org) if you want to add content, change the layout or any other heartbeat related issues and ideas! We are also happy about any kind of feedback! ^\_^

Commit message:

add fsww and kanthaus pics

user/pages/10.heartbeat/2018-11-18/item.md, after:

---
title: "yunity heartbeat 2018-11-18"
date: "2018-11-18"
continue_link: true
taxonomy:
    category: blog
    tag: [heartbeat]
published: true
---

**The yunity heartbeat** - news from the world of sharing, fresh every two weeks.

## [Kanthaus](https://kanthaus.online)
Kanthaus is still occupied with room planning. On coming Wednesday we will hold the third bigger meeting on the topic to clarify the obvious questions:
- What is the big, long-term masterplan for the layout of Kanthaus we all can agree on?
- What are the obstacles we need to overcome to make it reality?
- What steps towards these goals can be taken right now?

On top of that our [Autumn Roadmap](https://kanthaus.online/governance/minutes/2018-09-04_roadmap) is coming to an end, which means that we are closing in on a planning phase for winter anyways – so what's a better time for dreaming? :)

![](autumnRoadmap.jpg)<br>
_As you can see we still have some things to do..._

Fitting to the topic of dreaming, I'm happy to announce that Alexandra Yepes, a filmmaker who recently started shooting "[a documentary about life outside of the monetary system, produced entirely under the sharing economy](https://chirimoyafilms.wixsite.com/fausto/)", will come to Kanthaus next weekend. She is mostly following her protagonist Fausto, but will of course also record some of what is going on in Kanthaus. (Unfortunately that won't be a lot during the time she'll be here... ^\_^')

## [Foodsaving Worldwide](https://foodsaving.world)
Lódź celebrated the 1 year anniversary of their Food-Share Point last week with [a big event](https://www.facebook.com/events/256984375161501/). They also gave an [interview in a radio show](https://www.radiolodz.pl/broadcast_posts/48304-pierwsze-urodziny-lodzkiej-jadlodzielni-jestem-eko) (all in Polish, but a summary in English will follow shortly!), in which they showed a much brighter attitude than [during our visit in September](https://foodsaving.today/en/blog/2018/10/18/fspl-lodz-wroclaw).

![](0lodzAni.jpg)<br>
_An impression from the anniversary party in Lódź_

In Germany there is a lot of work done right now to strengthen the voice of foodsharing in media, politics and education: Next week there will be the [first session of the newfound "foodsharing academy"](https://wiki.foodsharing.de/images/6/6f/Seminarausschreibung_final.pdf) in Kassel, where foodsavers can learn about how to educate others about issues related to food waste. And until the end of the year the [demands for Germany's politicians](https://wiki.foodsharing.de/images/c/c6/Forderugen_lang_2017-12.pdf) will be refined, renewed and represented towards the public.

## [Karrot](https://karrot.world)

Last heartbeat missed a Karrot contribution, so this one highlights activity since end of October:

- We scheduled our [winter roadmap](https://community.foodsaving.world/t/collecting-feature-requests-for-karrot-winter-2018/134/8?u=tiltec)
- 120 commits touching 15,000 lines of code
- [4 new releases](https://github.com/yunity/karrot-frontend/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- significant improvements to the [Android app](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=world.karrot)
- the frontend code is now [organized in modules](https://docs.karrot.world/frontend-structure.html)

![](Karrot-loading.png?resize=240,470)<br>
_The new splash screen when loading Karrot; it makes Tilmann happy every time he improves the code_

There was also some Karrot-related activity in the [community forum](https://community.foodsaving.world/):

- Janina wrote a [call for beta testers](https://community.foodsaving.world/t/call-for-beta-testers/144)
- Lukas started a discussion about a [funding concept for Karrot](https://community.foodsaving.world/t/funding-concept-for-karrot/136)
- Bruno shared [his ideas how to send less emails](https://community.foodsaving.world/t/improving-notifications-e-mail-and-push/169)


_by Tilmann_

## Foodsavin today

## [foodsharing.de](https://foodsharing.de)-dev

## [Harzgerode / Haus X](http://freiefeldlage.de/)

## About the heartbeat.
The heartbeat is a fortnightly summary of what happens in yunity. It is meant to give an overview over our currents actions and topics.

### How to contribute?
Talk to us in [#heartbeat](https://yunity.slack.com/messages/heartbeat/) on [Slack](https://slackin.yunity.org) if you want to add content, change the layout or any other heartbeat related issues and ideas! We are also happy about any kind of feedback! ^\_^
