user/pages/01.heartbeat/2017-07-23/item.md, before:

---
title: "yunity heartbeat 2017-07-23"
date: "2017-07-23"
continue_link: true
taxonomy:
    category: blog
    tag: [heartbeat]
---

**The yunity heartbeat** - news from the world of sharing, fresh every two weeks.

## Hackathon in Berlin

### foodsharing.de light

### foodsaving tool

### trustroots.org

## News from foodsaving groups

- We got an email from Ecuador! Chalo says there is big interest in starting a foodsaving group, and that he'd love to build on our experiences to do so. Funnily enough, wile doing foodsharing on the Feel festival Tilmann and Janina discovered that Fausto - a foodsaver from Munich, who has Ecuadorian roots - is friends with Chalo and already plans going back to South America in the near future. This connection will definitely help us strengthening the bond to the Ecuadorian foodsaving community!
- Another mail reached us, this time from Colombia! Daniela also thinks that saving food is a great idea and she was mainly looking for agruments and tips on how to convince store owners to cooperate. We linked her to the guide we wrote about [how to build and maintein cooperations with stores](https://yunity.atlassian.net/wiki/display/FSINT/How+to+build+and+maintain+cooperations+with+stores) and encouraged Chalo to also get in contact, since Ecuador and Colombia are neighboring countried and their circumstances and callenges could be similar. Apart from that networking is _always_ good... ;)

## Kanthäuser Wurzen

As written in [the last issue](.../2017-07-09), we finally bought the houses in Wurzen! The roof is not completely waterproof yet, so immediate measures are taken by some pioneers, who took on the task of climing the roof and applying bitumen.

![](roofrepair.jpg)

The houses are not in a terrible state (compared to Bad Dürrenberg it's a safe haven...), but there's still a lot to do. The pipes and wires need to be checked and probably repaired, the heating doesn't work, the rooms are mostly empty and on top of that we found out, that there's the toxic GDR insecticide Holytox 59 in the wood of the roof.

On the other hand, we already have running water and internet is ordered... ;) We already collected some unused furniture from Leipzig (thanks to ebay Kleinanzeigen's gift feature) and mood and motivation are still up!

For more details read the [minutes from the daily meetings](https://yunity.atlassian.net/wiki/display/WW/After+moving+in%3A+Meeting+Minutes), where we collect every bit of info with regards to the construction works, the social setup, the general feelings of the participants, our needs, ideas and plans.

## Work camp in Harzgerode

## Summer camp in Dargelütz

Commit message:

add two short paragraphs in the Hackathon section

user/pages/01.heartbeat/2017-07-23/item.md, after:

---
title: "yunity heartbeat 2017-07-23"
date: "2017-07-23"
continue_link: true
taxonomy:
    category: blog
    tag: [heartbeat]
---

**The yunity heartbeat** - news from the world of sharing, fresh every two weeks.

## Hackathon in Berlin

- We are [Marie & Ines](https://twitter.com/nk42) and we work on Foodsaving backend during our [RailsGirls Summer of Code](https://railsgirlssummerofcode.org/). We started two weeks ago and the first thing we noticed was: we have to learn much more technical stuff (about APIs, Django shell, serializers, base models and at least 42 other things) to become good, productive contributors. And we are going to become that!
- The Hackathon was incredebly helpful for that. Tilmann explained the overall code structure and testing while Nick did a lot of code reading with us ("reading together” might sound strange, but it’s actually a great thing!). And then there were all these great people sharing food, cooking, hugging (even if they just know you for about 10 seconds) or working on their own projects. We had a great weekend! Thank you all!!!

### foodsharing.de light

### foodsaving tool

### trustroots.org

## News from foodsaving groups

- We got an email from Ecuador! Chalo says there is big interest in starting a foodsaving group, and that he'd love to build on our experiences to do so. Funnily enough, wile doing foodsharing on the Feel festival Tilmann and Janina discovered that Fausto - a foodsaver from Munich, who has Ecuadorian roots - is friends with Chalo and already plans going back to South America in the near future. This connection will definitely help us strengthening the bond to the Ecuadorian foodsaving community!
- Another mail reached us, this time from Colombia! Daniela also thinks that saving food is a great idea and she was mainly looking for agruments and tips on how to convince store owners to cooperate. We linked her to the guide we wrote about [how to build and maintein cooperations with stores](https://yunity.atlassian.net/wiki/display/FSINT/How+to+build+and+maintain+cooperations+with+stores) and encouraged Chalo to also get in contact, since Ecuador and Colombia are neighboring countried and their circumstances and callenges could be similar. Apart from that networking is _always_ good... ;)

## Kanthäuser Wurzen

As written in [the last issue](.../2017-07-09), we finally bought the houses in Wurzen! The roof is not completely waterproof yet, so immediate measures are taken by some pioneers, who took on the task of climing the roof and applying bitumen.

![](roofrepair.jpg)

The houses are not in a terrible state (compared to Bad Dürrenberg it's a safe haven...), but there's still a lot to do. The pipes and wires need to be checked and probably repaired, the heating doesn't work, the rooms are mostly empty and on top of that we found out, that there's the toxic GDR insecticide Holytox 59 in the wood of the roof.

On the other hand, we already have running water and internet is ordered... ;) We already collected some unused furniture from Leipzig (thanks to ebay Kleinanzeigen's gift feature) and mood and motivation are still up!

For more details read the [minutes from the daily meetings](https://yunity.atlassian.net/wiki/display/WW/After+moving+in%3A+Meeting+Minutes), where we collect every bit of info with regards to the construction works, the social setup, the general feelings of the participants, our needs, ideas and plans.

## Work camp in Harzgerode

## Summer camp in Dargelütz
