user/pages/01.heartbeat/2017-08-06/item.md, before:

---
title: "yunity heartbeat 2017-08-06"
date: "2017-08-06"
continue_link: true
taxonomy:
    category: blog
    tag: [heartbeat]
---

**The yunity heartbeat** - news from the world of sharing, fresh every two weeks.

## [foodsharing.de](https://foodsharing.de)

## [foodsaving.world](https://foodsaving.world)

Ines and Marie from RGSoC are [working to finalize](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend/issues/253#issuecomment-318612543) the [pick-up feedback feature](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-frontend/issues/159) on the back-end, while Lars already created [an user interface draft](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-frontend/pull/581).

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16825880/28800453-f57d0428-764c-11e7-8923-2c1a1affd7f0.png)

In an activity surge, Nick made much progress on [his back-end implementation](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend/pull/333) of the _Conversations_ feature, awaiting review now. Whilst working on that, he also had the idea to improve the test infrastructure, namely [watching files for changes and running only affected test](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend/pull/334). All that to boost our test coverage further up, even it's [already on 98%](https://codecov.io/gh/yunity/foodsaving-backend)!

### Further changes and improvements

- Users can add their location, members of the group can see where other members are located. This feature is meant to improve pick-up coordination and sharing of food.
- The store overview map got much more responsive: it zooms to the currently selected store and shows other stores and users with reduced opacity

![](fstool-groupmap.png)
![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4410802/28997594-ca0e6b0e-7a18-11e7-8498-e8cabc6213cc.png)

- The location input is now the same on group, store and user forms and the visibility of the address search field has been improved
- "Home" button added to all pages that links to the landing page
- Store list gets now sorted by name
- Bug fix: store map was sometimes not visible when the store didn't have an address
- Refresh data from the server when clicking on stores and the group. If two users were modifying data, it could lead to outdated values before. 
- Fix "blank page" bug when user is logged out or URL is invalid. It redirects to the login page now.
- The backend development setup should be easier now thanks to [the Dockerfile](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend/pull/331) created by Ines, Marie and their coaches.
- `Django-channels` for doing _websockets_ were added in preparation of the _Conversations_ feature
- When signing up, E-Mail addresses are now [considered case-insensitive](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend/pull/327) to prevent errors. For example, `test@example.com` and `Test@example.com` can't be used at the same time.
- The API documentation is now only available via `/docs/`, e.g. [foodsaving.world/docs/](https://foodsaving.world/docs/), while `/api/` returns raw `JSON` data.

## News from foodsaving groups

An [article about Foodsharing Maastricht](https://foodsaving.today/en/blog/2017/07/29/foodsharing-maastricht-discovery) was added to [foodsaving.today](https://foodsaving.today):

> Recently, we picked up food from three smaller supermarkets on a regular basis and we started to cooperate with the food supplier of the university, which already greatly improves the sustainability of our university. On a national level, we just joined the Dutch-wide Foodsharing foundation, which was also just recently founded.

## [Kanthäuser Wurzen](https://yunity.org/en/wurzen)

## [Gemeinschaftsstifter Harzgerode](https://www.gemeinschaftsstifter.info/)

---

## About the heartbeat.

The heartbeat is a biweekly summary of what happens in yunity. It is meant to give an overview over our currents actions and topics.

### When and how does it happen?

Every other weekend we collect information on a wiki page and publish it on Sunday or the following Monday as a wiki blog article.

Afterwards we add a nice abstract and share it on [facebook](https://www.facebook.com/yunity.org/).

### How to contribute?

Talk to us in [#heartbeat](https://yunity.slack.com/messages/heartbeat/) on [Slack](https://slackin.yunity.org) about the content, the layout or any other heartbeat related issues and ideas!

Commit message:

Some fs.de light and fstool contributions

user/pages/01.heartbeat/2017-08-06/item.md, after:

---
title: "yunity heartbeat 2017-08-06"
date: "2017-08-06"
continue_link: true
taxonomy:
    category: blog
    tag: [heartbeat]
---

**The yunity heartbeat** - news from the world of sharing, fresh every two weeks.

## [foodsharing.de light](https://foodsharing.de)

We merged the first contributions from a new contributor, a skilled programmer called [Jannis](https://github.com/derhuerst/), who joined us at the hackathon. He's [improved the metadata](https://github.com/foodsharing-dev/foodsharing-light/commits?author=derhuerst) of the site.

He also started work on solving some tricky issues on the nodejs chat server which the existing and light versions of the site both need to conncet to - this is the last remaining issue before we can publish the light version of the site further!

Tilmann is working on improving the display of chat messages when the content gets too wide, and ensuring we are correctly escaping and autolinking the content.

Martin [continues to work](https://github.com/foodsharing-dev/foodsharing-light/commits/quasar-beta) on upgrading us to the latest version of Quasar, thanks!

## [foodsaving.world](https://foodsaving.world)

Ines and Marie from RGSoC are [working to finalize](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend/issues/253#issuecomment-318612543) the [pick-up feedback feature](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-frontend/issues/159) on the back-end, while Lars already created [an user interface draft](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-frontend/pull/581).

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16825880/28800453-f57d0428-764c-11e7-8923-2c1a1affd7f0.png)

Dave, Nick, Ana, Ines, Marie, and Daniel were at Soundcloud for a retrospective of the last month:

![](rgsoc-retro-group.jpg?resize=800)

There was a lot of consensus on the speed at which Ines and Marie are progressing:

![](rgsoc-retro-progress.jpg?resize=800)


In an activity surge, Nick made much progress on [his back-end implementation](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend/pull/333) of the _Conversations_ feature, awaiting review now. Whilst working on that, he also had the idea to improve the test infrastructure, namely [watching files for changes and running only affected test](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend/pull/334). All that to boost our test coverage further up, even it's [already on 98%](https://codecov.io/gh/yunity/foodsaving-backend)!

### Further changes and improvements

- Users can add their location, members of the group can see where other members are located. This feature is meant to improve pick-up coordination and sharing of food.
- The store overview map got much more responsive: it zooms to the currently selected store and shows other stores and users with reduced opacity

![](fstool-groupmap.png)
![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4410802/28997594-ca0e6b0e-7a18-11e7-8498-e8cabc6213cc.png)

- The location input is now the same on group, store and user forms and the visibility of the address search field has been improved
- "Home" button added to all pages that links to the landing page
- Store list gets now sorted by name
- Bug fix: store map was sometimes not visible when the store didn't have an address
- Refresh data from the server when clicking on stores and the group. If two users were modifying data, it could lead to outdated values before. 
- Fix "blank page" bug when user is logged out or URL is invalid. It redirects to the login page now.
- The backend development setup should be easier now thanks to [the Dockerfile](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend/pull/331) created by Ines, Marie and their coaches.
- `Django-channels` for doing _websockets_ were added in preparation of the _Conversations_ feature
- When signing up, E-Mail addresses are now [considered case-insensitive](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend/pull/327) to prevent errors. For example, `test@example.com` and `Test@example.com` can't be used at the same time.
- The API documentation is now only available via `/docs/`, e.g. [foodsaving.world/docs/](https://foodsaving.world/docs/), while `/api/` returns raw `JSON` data.

## News from foodsaving groups

An [article about Foodsharing Maastricht](https://foodsaving.today/en/blog/2017/07/29/foodsharing-maastricht-discovery) was added to [foodsaving.today](https://foodsaving.today):

> Recently, we picked up food from three smaller supermarkets on a regular basis and we started to cooperate with the food supplier of the university, which already greatly improves the sustainability of our university. On a national level, we just joined the Dutch-wide Foodsharing foundation, which was also just recently founded.

## [Kanthäuser Wurzen](https://yunity.org/en/wurzen)

## [Gemeinschaftsstifter Harzgerode](https://www.gemeinschaftsstifter.info/)

---

## About the heartbeat.

The heartbeat is a biweekly summary of what happens in yunity. It is meant to give an overview over our currents actions and topics.

### When and how does it happen?

Every other weekend we collect information on a wiki page and publish it on Sunday or the following Monday as a wiki blog article.

Afterwards we add a nice abstract and share it on [facebook](https://www.facebook.com/yunity.org/).

### How to contribute?

Talk to us in [#heartbeat](https://yunity.slack.com/messages/heartbeat/) on [Slack](https://slackin.yunity.org) about the content, the layout or any other heartbeat related issues and ideas!
