user/pages/07.events/2017-06-14-hackathon/item.md, before:

---
title: "Hackathon - Coding for Change"
date: "2017-06-14"
continue_link: false
taxonomy:
    category: events
published: true
---

We held the
[first Coding for Change hackathon](https://www.facebook.com/events/566469526884248/)
last October at [co-up](http://co-up.de) (thanks co-up!) and it was a great success. A lot of energy went into the projects and much progress was made. You can read
[our retrospective](https://yunity.atlassian.net/wiki/display/YUN/Hackathon+Retrospective) for the details.

It's time for the next one!

### Why?

We want to take an active part in changing society - dedicated to preventing waste and expanding the movement of sharing resources.

### When?

- 14th July (evening) _please arrive_ **by 8pm** _for our welcome session_
- 15th July (full day)
- 16th July (full day)

Please fill in the
[attendance sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1U4pX26XDpg-p9S8ZRl_k-tibgC57sftnumT3iSA4D1I/edit#gid=0)
if you want to come, or are just thinking about it.


### Where?

[co-up](http://co-up.de), Adalbertstr. 8, 10999 Berlin

They very generously provide the space to us for free, so please [support them](http://co-up.de/support-us.html).

### What?

We have three great projects and invite new and existing developers to join for a weekend of meeting and coding.

If you are not already involved with one of the projects and you want to attend please get involved _now_ so you are ready to start coding when you arrive!

These are all projects built by grassroots communities and run on a shoestring budget (or no budget), they are all great and need your support.

(If you have a project that you think fits in with these and would like to join our hackathon, please pester someone in the _#hackathon_ channel in [slack](https://slackin.yunity.org/)).

---

#### [foodsharing.de](https://foodsharing.de)

Helps over 150 thousand people to save and share food.

There are two parts to the application.

##### 1) existing server-rendered PHP application

This is the main site, and is currently being turned into a laravel app by the original developer as part of [Prototype Fund - round 1](https://prototypefund.de/projects/round1/).

##### 2) new _light_ version

A Symfony + Doctrine RESTful API built on top of the existing database with a shiny [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) / [Quasar](http://quasar-framework.org/) mobile-friendly frontend focused on the tasks you need to do _now_ - e.g. see your next pickups, reply to messages, and contact the other people doing a pickup with you.

See [our writeup](https://devblog.foodsharing.de/2017/04/18/easter-foodsharing-hackathon.html) for details and screenshots.

**Code**: [gitlab.com/foodsharing-dev](https://gitlab.com/foodsharing-dev/) and [github.com/foodsharing-dev](https://github.com/foodsharing-dev/)

**Get involved**: join _#foodsharing-dev_ channel in [slack](https://slackin.yunity.org/).

---

#### [foodsaving.world](https://foodsaving.world)

A new website to help foodsaving communities worldwide schedule food pickups. Currently being used by [a team in Gothenburg](https://foodsaving.today/en/blog/2017/04/27/foodsharing-gothenburg-part3), translated into 8+ languages.

It's a python + django-rest-framework API backend with an AngularJS frontend built using [Angular Material](https://material.angularjs.org/).

This summer it's in the [Rails Girls Summer of Code](https://teams.railsgirlssummerofcode.org/projects/129-foodsaving-and-foodsharing) programme.

**Code**: [github.com/yunity/foodsaving-frontend](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-frontend/) and [github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend/)

**Get involved**: join _#foodsaving-tool_ channel in [slack](https://slackin.yunity.org/).

---

#### [trustroots.org](https://trustroots.org)

Travellers' community for sharing, hosting and getting people together.

A nodejs backend and AngularJS frontend.

**Code**: [github.com/Trustroots/trustroots](https://github.com/Trustroots/trustroots)

**Get involved**: [developers.trustroots.org](http://developers.trustroots.org/)

---

#### Additionally...

There will be non-dev workshops and meetings around the idea of sharing to find possibilities of support and start mutual activities, especially foodsharing, permakultur, urban gardening and tempelhof commons.

**Contact**: Philip Engelbutzeder [butze-7@web.de](mailto:butze-7@web.de)

---

### Will there be food?

Yes! Saved food will be provided and prepared for free!

Add any preferences on the [attendance sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1U4pX26XDpg-p9S8ZRl_k-tibgC57sftnumT3iSA4D1I/edit#gid=0).

### Where will I sleep?

We are organizing accommodation provided by friends and participants in the city.

If you have or need accommodation, please mention it on the [attendance sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1U4pX26XDpg-p9S8ZRl_k-tibgC57sftnumT3iSA4D1I/edit#gid=0) - if you are staying somewhere please bring sleeping gear if possible to make it easier for your host.

### Is there a schedule?

No.

Other than our opening session on **Friday at 8pm**, we leave each project to decide how to organise themselves.

There will likely be a closing session, and a cleaning party too, although as yet unplanned.

Hope to see you there!

Commit message:

Add hackathon section on non-developers

user/pages/07.events/2017-06-14-hackathon/item.md, after:

---
title: "Hackathon - Coding for Change"
date: "2017-06-14"
continue_link: false
taxonomy:
    category: events
published: true
---

We held the
[first Coding for Change hackathon](https://www.facebook.com/events/566469526884248/)
last October at [co-up](http://co-up.de) (thanks co-up!) and it was a great success. A lot of energy went into the projects and much progress was made. You can read
[our retrospective](https://yunity.atlassian.net/wiki/display/YUN/Hackathon+Retrospective) for the details.

It's time for the next one!

### Why?

We want to take an active part in changing society - dedicated to preventing waste and expanding the movement of sharing resources.

### When?

- 14th July (evening) _please arrive_ **by 8pm** _for our welcome session_
- 15th July (full day)
- 16th July (full day)

Please fill in the
[attendance sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1U4pX26XDpg-p9S8ZRl_k-tibgC57sftnumT3iSA4D1I/edit#gid=0)
if you want to come, or are just thinking about it.


### Where?

[co-up](http://co-up.de), Adalbertstr. 8, 10999 Berlin

They very generously provide the space to us for free, so please [support them](http://co-up.de/support-us.html).

### What?

We have three great projects and invite new and existing developers to join for a weekend of meeting and coding.

If you are not already involved with one of the projects and you want to attend please get involved _now_ so you are ready to start coding when you arrive!

These are all projects built by grassroots communities and run on a shoestring budget (or no budget), they are all great and need your support.

(If you have a project that you think fits in with these and would like to join our hackathon, please pester someone in the _#hackathon_ channel in [slack](https://slackin.yunity.org/)).

---

#### [foodsharing.de](https://foodsharing.de)

Helps over 150 thousand people to save and share food.

There are two parts to the application.

##### 1) existing server-rendered PHP application

This is the main site, and is currently being turned into a laravel app by the original developer as part of [Prototype Fund - round 1](https://prototypefund.de/projects/round1/).

##### 2) new _light_ version

A Symfony + Doctrine RESTful API built on top of the existing database with a shiny [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) / [Quasar](http://quasar-framework.org/) mobile-friendly frontend focused on the tasks you need to do _now_ - e.g. see your next pickups, reply to messages, and contact the other people doing a pickup with you.

See [our writeup](https://devblog.foodsharing.de/2017/04/18/easter-foodsharing-hackathon.html) for details and screenshots.

**Code**: [gitlab.com/foodsharing-dev](https://gitlab.com/foodsharing-dev/) and [github.com/foodsharing-dev](https://github.com/foodsharing-dev/)

**Get involved**: join _#foodsharing-dev_ channel in [slack](https://slackin.yunity.org/).

---

#### [foodsaving.world](https://foodsaving.world)

A new website to help foodsaving communities worldwide schedule food pickups. Currently being used by [a team in Gothenburg](https://foodsaving.today/en/blog/2017/04/27/foodsharing-gothenburg-part3), translated into 8+ languages.

It's a python + django-rest-framework API backend with an AngularJS frontend built using [Angular Material](https://material.angularjs.org/).

This summer it's in the [Rails Girls Summer of Code](https://teams.railsgirlssummerofcode.org/projects/129-foodsaving-and-foodsharing) programme.

**Code**: [github.com/yunity/foodsaving-frontend](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-frontend/) and [github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend](https://github.com/yunity/foodsaving-backend/)

**Get involved**: join _#foodsaving-tool_ channel in [slack](https://slackin.yunity.org/).

---

#### [trustroots.org](https://trustroots.org)

Travellers' community for sharing, hosting and getting people together.

A nodejs backend and AngularJS frontend.

**Code**: [github.com/Trustroots/trustroots](https://github.com/Trustroots/trustroots)

**Get involved**: [developers.trustroots.org](http://developers.trustroots.org/)

---

#### Additionally...

There will be non-dev workshops and meetings around the idea of sharing to find possibilities of support and start mutual activities, especially foodsharing, permakultur, urban gardening and tempelhof commons.

**Contact**: Philip Engelbutzeder [butze-7@web.de](mailto:butze-7@web.de)

---

### Will there be food?

Yes! Saved food will be provided and prepared for free!

Add any preferences on the [attendance sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1U4pX26XDpg-p9S8ZRl_k-tibgC57sftnumT3iSA4D1I/edit#gid=0).

### Where will I sleep?

We are organizing accommodation provided by friends and participants in the city.

If you have or need accommodation, please mention it on the [attendance sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1U4pX26XDpg-p9S8ZRl_k-tibgC57sftnumT3iSA4D1I/edit#gid=0) - if you are staying somewhere please bring sleeping gear if possible to make it easier for your host.

### I am not a developer, can I still come?

For a productive hackathon we try and keep a majority developer crowd.

Of course successful projects also need product people, design people, PR people, etc.
So, there is no hard rule here. If in doubt get in touch with one of the projects to see if they
can use your help!

At co-up we will have 3 seperate rooms available as well as a common space,
so we can ensure there is productive space for developers to work.

Also, see the _Additionally..._ section above, where Philip will be co-ordinating non-dev workshops and meetings.

Also also, we really value help in organizing the hackathon, sourcing and preparing food, and arranging accommodation.
If you want to get involved in that then talk to Janina or Laurina in the _#hackathon_ channel in [slack](https://slackin.yunity.org/).

### Is there a schedule?

No.

Other than our opening session on **Friday at 8pm**, we leave each project to decide how to organise themselves.

There will likely be a closing session, and a cleaning party too, although as yet unplanned.

Hope to see you there!
